# FoodTruckProject

# Description

   This program starts by defining a new object "FoodTruck" as well as its fields, setting all to private. Then, in the class containing the main method, an array of no more than 5 "FoodTruck" objects are assigned as "fleetOfFoodTrucks." A Scanner is then initialized as well as new Strings and an integer bearing resemblance, though with a different name, to the fields of "FoodTruck." A for loop is set up to no exceed the total length of the  "fleetOfFoodTrucks" array, and the user is prompted to enter the name of the first truck contained within the array. and if else statement is then created passing the user's input; if anything besides "quit" is typed in, it will be assigned to string bearing resemblance to the "FoodTruck" "name" field. If the user types in "quit", then the loop will break and continue to the next part of the app; if anything else is entered, the "else" part of the statement is triggered and the user is prompted to input a food type the truck serves and then a rating from 1-10, both of which will be assigned to the field-resembling string and integer, respectively. At the end of each iteration of the loop, a new "FoodTruck" object will be created taking the resembling stings and integer and assigning them to parameters for the "FoodTruck." This newly created object and it's parameters will then be fed into the "fleetOfFoodTrucks" array under the "i" increment index it falls under. When five truck details have been fill by the user, the loop will break into the next part of the app.
   A boolean for a while loop is then initialized and the while loop will continue as the boolean states true, creating an infinite loop. Within this loop, a menu is printed to show the use 4 seperate options, prompting each by typing 1, 2, 3, or 4; four "if" statements are made to process the input. 
   If the user types 1 (the menu states this will give the information for all food trucks), a for loop is called, parsing through the array of food trucks with each increment, passing the data to the toString to be printed out (as long as the "if" statement all this is couched in, doesn't pick up a "null" factor for the name of a truck.
   If the user enters 2 (for which the menu states it will give an average of to total combined truck ratings), integers for a total, divider, and average rating are initialized. Then a for loop is created running for the length of the array, "fleetOfFoodTrucks." An if statement seperates any "null" areas of the array, and total is continued summed up with the += and each iteration of the array's indexes' method of getRating (which retrieves the field, rating, that was previously entered in the first section of the app). Also within the for loop, divider is incremented, so as to get the exact number of ratings provided. Then, the loop passes the data in the equation, total/ divider and assigns the result to the average rating variable, which is then printed out along with the message saying that this is the average rating.
   If the user types 3 (the menu option for showing the highest rated truck), a new "FoodTruck" object is created without parameters. Then, a for loop is created running for the length of the array. An if statement is made stating that as long as the incremented index of the array is not equal to "null," the app will continue to the a nested "if" statement stating that if the rating (which is retrieved using the getRating method) of each incremented index of the array is greater than the new "FoodTruck" object created before the loop (named "highestRating"), highestRating will then be assigned that greater value, and the next increment of the loop will be triggered. At the end of this loop, highestRating will be assigned the, well, highest rating, and it's value will be printed to the console stating that it is by using the toString method.
   If the user types 4 (which is the quit option on the menu), the console prints out the message "Goodbye." and the break stops the while loop, closing the scanner, and ending the program.   
	

# What I learned
   I learned three difficult things during this project. The first one, was how to establish a static field in an object. By initializing an ID field and then assigning it to a static integer that increments, this goal was met. It allows for a continual changing of any value without an user input.
   The second, and more difficult, thing I learned was where to create new objects to return different data types as well as passing parameters (ex- lines 81 & 84-5 as well as lines 40-41 in FoodTruckApp.java, respectively). I feel this is more illuminated after this project, but it will need to be attempted a few more times for me to have a solid grasp on it.
   The third, and by far the most depressing, difficulty experience was the... mathematical(?) equations/algorithms it took to get the outputs for the final menu (options 1-3). It's been a good 13 years since I've worked with anything beyond simple add/sub/mult/div math, and this parts had smoke coming out of my ears. If it weren't for the TA assistance, I probably wouldn't have been able to figure this out. I'm hoping that more time in this program will help shape my mind more towards this way of thinking, but I will start doing to side programming "games" online to be sure (and hopefully fast track this process).
